h1. Synyx Messagesource for Spring

This project brings an implementation of Springs @MessageSource@ interface, which is responsible for resolving texts in an internationalised manner. See the
"Spring Reference":http://static.springsource.org/spring/docs/3.0.5.RELEASE/spring-framework-reference/htmlsingle/spring-framework-reference.html#context-functionality-messagesource for more details about Springs i18n mechanism. 


Spring currently ships with two implementations of @MessageSource@. While @StaticMessageSource@ is very simple and intended for testing-purposes, @ResourceBundleMessageSource@ is a layer above JAVAs @ResourceBundle@  and is mainly used for resolving messages from resource-files like @messages_en.properties@.
 
This project brings another implementation which allows to persist your internationalisation in a RDBMS accessed by JDBC. We think, storing messages in the Database can help you to with several problems:

* Let the user of an application change its translations "on the fly" using the application itself
* Reload messages without Classloading-Issues
* less Encoding-Mess

h1. Getting Started

For those who want to give the project a quick try without learning much about how it works, this section might help.

h2. Dependencies (Maven)

Include the messagesource-artifact in your Maven build (@pom.xml@):

<pre class="code"><code class="xml">
<dependencies>
  [...]
    <dependency>
        <groupId>org.synyx</groupId>
        <artifactId>messagesource</artifactId>
        <version>0.6.1</version>
    </dependency>
</dependencies>
</code>
</pre>

Since the artifact is currently only available from Synyx' public repositories you have to include this in your POM as well:

<pre class="code"><code class="xml">
<repositories>
    [...]
    <repository>
        <id>nexus.synyx.org</id>
        <name>Synyx OpenSource Repository</name>
        <url>http://repo.synyx.org</url>
    </repository>
</repositories>
</code>
</pre>

h2. Integration

Now that your project has the dependency you can integrate it within your applications bean-definition file (maybe @applicationContext.xml@ or whatever).
Spring searches for a bean named @messageSource@ within your context and uses this to resolve its messages. So, instead using a classic @RessourceBundleMessageSource@ backed by a set of @.properties@ files you define the following which is the minimal configuration of a @MessageSource@ that reads its data from the database:

<pre class="code"><code class="xml">
<bean id="messageSource" class="org.synyx.messagesource.InitializableMessageSource">
    <property name="messageProvider">
        <bean class="org.synyx.messagesource.jdbc.JdbcMessageProvider">
            <property name="dataSource" ref="dataSource"/>
        </bean>
    </property>
</bean>
</code>
</pre>

In addition, you need a bean named @dataSource@ within the context, implementing the @javax.sql.DataSource@ interface. But you'll probably have one of those anyway. If your @DataSource@-Bean has a different name simply adjust it in the @ref@ attribute above.


Both beans we define here have a set of properties for additional configuration which are not completely mentioned here for the sake of simplicity. But we will go into more detail in the following sections.


h1. Database

For the above configuration the database where your @DataSource@ leads to is expected to have a table containing the messages named *Messages* and the following colums:

* a column named *language* containing the language-code the message is for 
* a column named *country* containing the country-code the message is for
* a column named *variant* containing the variant-code the message is for
* a column named *basename* containing the basename (can be seen as a cateogry) the message is for
* a column named *key* containing the key-code of the message
* a column named *message* containing the message itself, including "usual" patterns for placeholders ({0} etc)

All columns must be String-Types (e.g. VARCHAR for mySQL) and may be empty.

The name of the table as well of the columns can be configured using @<property name="languageColumn" value="sprache"/>@ on @JdbcMessageProvider@. Replace language with country, variant, key, message, basename accordingly and use the tableName property to change the table. 

From version *0.6.1* on you may also set the delimiter used to delimit the names of columns and the table using @<property name="delimiter" value="`"/>@ to fit your databases needs. If your database supports this its ok to set this to an empty string or whatever.

To create such a table in your database you could use a statement like the following:

<pre class="code"><code class="sql">
CREATE TABLE `Message` (
    `basename` VARCHAR( 31 ) NOT NULL ,
    `language` VARCHAR( 7 ) NULL ,
    `country` VARCHAR( 7 ) NULL ,
    `variant` VARCHAR( 7 ) NULL ,
    `key` VARCHAR( 255 ) NULL ,
    `message` TEXT NULL
);
</code>
</pre>

If you insert messages into the table, you must set a basename. All the other fields may be empty or null (because null is treated in a special manner in databases you might want to use an empty String for "not set"). If you want to insert a global defaultmessage for a given basename simply leave language, country and variant empty. If you want to insert an english message, just set the language-column to "en" and leave country and variant empty. tbc.

Please note that the values within the columns language, country and variant correspond directly to the values in @java.util.Locale@ which means they should match the correct ISO-Codes. See @Locale@s API-Doc for details.

h2. Speedup message import 

    Messages are pushed into Database as Batch inserts. <br><b>Current performance test results : 30000 messages   are inserted in 5 seconds with the following configuration.</b> <br>
 You only need to add "rewriteBatchedStatements" parameter to database url to achive this throughput.<br/>
  <b>Test enviorment</b><br>	

	Mysql version- 5.1.65<br>
	Driver/Connector- mysql-connector-java-5.1.15.jar<br>
	<b>Note-</b> Add following “&rewriteBatchedStatements=true” parameter  to your jdbc.url
    <br><b>Sample-</b><br>
    Before Replacing - jdbc.url=jdbc:mysql://<host>/<db>?useUnicode=true&characterEncoding=utf8
    After Replacing -  jdbc.url=jdbc:mysql://<host>/<db>?useUnicode=true&characterEncoding=utf8&rewriteBatchedStatements=true
	

h1. Diggin' deeper

h2. InitializableMessageSource

The @InitializableMessagesource@ kind of works like springs regular @ResourceBundleMessageSource@ (which delegates to @ResourceBundle@) except that it loads all the messages at once using a @MessageProvider@.

An @InitializableMessagesource@ can be responsible for 1 or more basenames which can be seen as "message-categories". One of these basenames would be equal to to a set of @.properties@ files with the same basename (matching the pattern basename_language_country_variant.properties) when you'd use @ResourceBundleMessageSource@. With @InitializableMessagesource@ messages are categorized the same way but "stored" however the configured @MessageProvider@ wants to (e.g. in Database for @JDBCMessageProvider@).

h3. Initialisation

As mentioned before, @InitializableMessagesource@ loads all its messages at certain points. This is every time its @initialize()@ method is called. If you do not configure it otherwise and use Spring to create your @MessageSource@ this is also at construction-time. Afterwards you may inject the @InitializableMessagesource@ into your components and call @initialize()@ again at any time. 

If you do not want the @MessageSource@ to be initialized on construction-time you may set the @autoInitialize@-property to false:

<pre class="code"><code class="xml">
<bean id="messageSource" class="org.synyx.messagesource.InitializableMessageSource">
    <property name="autoInitialize" value="false" />
    [...]
</bean>
</code>
</pre>

Each time @initialize()@ is called, the @InitializableMessagesource@ asks its @MessageProvider@ for all the messages it has (for the configured basenames). These messages are cached until @initialize()@ is called the next time.

h3. Messageprovider

@InitializableMessagesource@ uses a @MessageProvider@ to load its messages. The project currently ships two implementations of this interface. Of course, you can implement your own one too and set it @InitializableMessageSource@ using its @messageProvider@-property.

<pre class="code"><code class="xml">
<bean id="messageSource" class="org.synyx.messagesource.InitializableMessageSource">
    <property name="messageProvider"> <bean class="org.synyx.MySpecialMessageProvider"/> </property>
    [...]
</bean>
</code>
</pre>

The two implementations provided are @FileSystemMessageProvider@ and @JdbcMessageProvider@. 

@JdbcMessageProvider@ looks up messages from a table in a given database (see above for configuration options, mainly the names of the table and the columns).

@FileSystemMessageProvider@ behaves kind of like the known @ResourceBundleMessageSource@, except that its aware of all @.properties@ files in a directory. You configure it by giving it a @File@ or @String@ leading to the directory where it looks for files with the patern *.properties while being aware of the "locale-postfixes" within the filename. Using this alone will probably not solve any bigger problems for you, but it is very useful when it comes to importing messages from a @.properties@ file into the database and vice-versa.

h3. Basenames

By default, @InitializableMessageSource@ first asks its @MessageProvider@ for all available basenames and then requests the messages for each basename returned.
You may limit this by using the @basename@ or @basenames@ properties. If you want the @MessageSource@ to be responsible only for a single basename, use the basename property. 

<pre class="code"><code class="xml">
<bean id="messageSource" class="org.synyx.messagesource.InitializableMessageSource">
    <property name="basenames">messages</property>
    [...]
</bean>
</code>
</pre>

If you want to limit it to more than one basename, use basenames. 

<pre class="code"><code class="xml">
<bean id="messageSource" class="org.synyx.messagesource.InitializableMessageSource">
    <property name="basenames">
        <list>
             <value>messages</value>
             <value>special</value>
        </list>
    </property>
    [...]
</bean>
</code>
</pre>

As mentioned, if you neither set the basename nor the basenames properties, the @InitializableMessageSource@ simply resolves messages for all the basenames available from the @MessageProvider@, which is usually a good way to start. In this case you are able to add new categories (basenames) on the fly by simply inserting corresponding rows into the database.

h3. Configure as per your requirement
    
    Following configurations provides extra flexibility to control UI level behaviour<br>
    Sample spring configuration<br>

    <bean id="messageSource" class="org.synyx.messagesource.InitializableMessageSource">
     <property name="messageProvider" ref="messageProvider"/>
     <property name="returnUnresolvedCode" value="true"/></b>
     <property name="defaultLocale" value="en"/>
    </bean>
    <bean name="messageProvider" class="org.synyx.messagesource.jdbc.JdbcMessageProvider">
       <property name="dataSource" ref="dataSource"/>    </bean>
   
 <b>returnUnresolvedCode</b>-If set true returns message code (key), if no message could be resolved  for this code.  Helps avoiding null pointer exception at UI level.

<b>defaultLocale</b>- This locale will be explicitly set for the message, if the message is resolved  from a base name without locale(usually default basename file).This parameter helps avoid null pointer exception for the messages with arguments. <br>Example-  test.message= hi{0}, welcome back.
<spring:message code="test.message" arguments="test user"/>  will give error if the message is resolved from the basename file without locale specied in it name.


h3. Message Resolving

@InitializableMessagesource@ resolves its messages the same way @ResourceBundle@ does.

When resolving a message the keys are tried to resolve in the following order:

* given Locales language + country + variant
* given Locales language + country
* given Locales language
* default Locales language + country + variant (property defaultLocale, if not null)
* default Locales language + country (property defaultLocale, if not null)
* default Locales language (property defaultLocale, if not null)
* Global Default (basename)

As you can see, there is (like in @ResourceBundle@) a defaultLocale involved. Unlike with @ResourceBundle@ this is not the Systems default but one you may set explicitly using the @defaultLocale@-property of @InitializableMessagesource@. If you do not set it (or set it to @null@) the @MessageSource@ falls back to the global default for the basename skipping the default-steps mentioned above.

<pre class="code"><code class="xml">
<bean id="messageSource" class="org.synyx.messagesource.InitializableMessageSource">
    <property name="defaultLocale" value="en_US" />
    [...]
</bean>
</code>
</pre>

h1. Importing Messages

If you want to import an existing set of @ResourceBundle@ files you might want to give the @Importer@ a try. @JdbcMessageProvider@ and @FileSystemMessageProvider@ also implement a second interface: @MessageAcceptor@ which can be used to set messages (Save them to the filesystem or database). 

Example:

<pre>
<code class="java">
@Autowired
private JdbcMessageProvider jdbcMessageProvider;
MessageProvider source = filesystemMessageProvider;
MessageAcceptor target = jdbcMessageProvider;

Importer importer = new Importer(source, target);

// imports messages of all basenames from source to target
importer.importMessages(); 

// or just import some basenames?
Collection<String> basenames = source.getAvailableBaseNames();
for (String basename : basenames) {
    if (decideIfImport(basename)) {
        importer.importMessages(basename);
    }
}
</code>
</pre>

The same way this works for importing from filesystem to database you may also "export" from database to filesystem by switching source and target.
If you prefer to get your @.properties@ files zipped you may use the @ZipMessageAcceptor@ which writes the files zip-compressed to an @OutputStream@ or @File@. Reading @.properties@ files from @ZipMessageAcceptor@ is currently not supported (@ZipMessageAcceptor@ only implements the @MessageAcceptor@ interface, not the @MessageProvider@).

